# Hackathon
PRESS NOTE 


Team Alstasia of GZSCCET Bathinda, comprising of students from BTECH CSE 2K14 Batch namely Mr. Shubham Sagar, Ms. Sampada Bhatnagar, Ms. Ramandeep Kaur, Ms. Shikha Goyal , Mr.Vikesh Kumar and Mr. Hardik Sharma under the mentorship of Prof. Sanjay Bhatnagar, HOD Computer Applications Department  has won the INSPIRATIONAL TEAM AWARD for the solution provided to the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India in the HACKATHON 2017.
About Hackathon 2017
HACKATHON 2017 is an initiative of Govt. of India and executed through AICTE, India. The PM has taken keen interest to get the solutions of the problems faced by common people through various ministries .The ministries has jotted down their problems and the solutions are provided by the students of various AICTE approved institutes.
Participation of GZSCCET in HACKATHON 2017
The team of GZSCCET, Bathinda has sent 2 teams to solve the problems of different ministries. The team Alstasia shows the problem of helping the students and persons posted abroad or planning to go abroad, a problem of MEA. They developed an android application, which provides the location of the grievant who is facing a problem or is stuck in a disaster situation in abroad. By knowing the location, speedy help can be provided by the respective embassies put on duty in that country.
The app has a panic button which sends an alert to Geo-specific MEA help centre. The Indian event is the biggest Hackathon of the world in the country till date. Here the participating teams are to provide the working solution of the ministry specific problem chosen by them in continuous coding marathon for 36 hours without any wink of sleep. Team members including mentor are allowed to go for meals and nature calls but only in batches. At least 3 members must be present in their seats. The judges are judging the teams in between throughout the 36 hours. Prime Minister also addressed the students on first day from 10 pm to 11 pm and interacted with the teams. The work of the team Alstasia of GZSCCET is very well appreciated by the judges’ panel comprising of an officer from MEA, a software expert from world class software company like Persistent Solutions and Pyramid Solutions to name a few software members of software development teams of MEA.
The team is able to provide the functionality of Geo-tagging to the existing app of MEA i.e. MADAD.In lay man’s terms, mobile towers are used as assistants to satellites via the Assisted GPS method in order to obtain the accurate location of the person sending distress signals.Thereby the localised admins receive notifications of the same via sms & email and reiterate according to the urgency.The usage of Google’s realtime database Firebase provided a hardcore layer of security to this app.Main USP is that it targets all the smartphone users and encourages Indians to utilize the power of mobile phones even in emergency situations.  
Prof.(Dr.) Mohan Paul Singh Ishar, Vice Chancellor, MRSPTU congratulated the teams participated and appreciated their skills. The Vice Chancellor also added that it’s a proud moment for the University as such achievements of students bring great enthusiasm for the faculty and  inspires the students to reach high goals. Registrar of MRSPTU and Campus Director of GZSCCET Bathinda congratulated the students and  appreciated the efforts of CSE & CA department for preparing the students for national level competitive events. Head CSE and faculty members of departments of CSE and CA appreciated the team work and congratulated the students for their achievement.
